TIB 1.8.0 RNs.mdx (#2708)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: developer-support/release-notes/tib.mdx

---

## 1.8 Release Notes

### 1.8.0 Release Notes

#### Release Date xx August 2026

#### Release Highlights

> This release extends GCP IAM-based authentication for Redis/Valkey to TIB's storage connection and updates the Go toolchain to Go 1.26. This release also addresses reported CVEs in dependent libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tyk Identity Broker now supports IAM-based authentication for Google Cloud Memorystore for Redis Cluster and Valkey, as an alternative to a static password.
```

#### Deprecations
There are no deprecations in this release.

#### Upgrade instructions
For users currently on v1.7.3, we strongly recommend promptly upgrading to the latest release. If you are working with an older version (lower major), it is advisable to bypass version 1.7.3 and proceed directly to this latest patch release.
<br/>
Go to the [Upgrading Tyk](#upgrading-tyk) section for detailed upgrade Instructions.

#### Downloads
- [Docker image to pull](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-identity-broker/tags?name=1.8.0)
  ```
  docker pull tykio/tyk-identity-broker:v1.8.0
  ```
- source code tarball for oss projects - [TIB v1.8.0](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-identity-broker/releases/tag/v1.8.0)

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v1.8.0" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Changed

<AccordionGroup>
<Accordion title='Updated Golang version to 1.26'>
{/* TT-17868 */}
Tyk Identity Broker has been updated to build with Go 1.26, keeping the toolchain current with upstream Go security and performance updates.
</Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

##### Added

<AccordionGroup>

<Accordion title='Added GCP IAM authentication for Redis/Valkey'>
{/* TT-17611 */}

> Tyk Identity Broker can now authenticate to Google Cloud Memorystore for Redis/Valkey using GCP IAM-based authentication, as an alternative to a static Redis password, for its Redis-backed storage connection. This is supported for Memorystore for Valkey and for Memorystore for Redis Cluster; legacy non-cluster Memorystore for Redis has no IAM support from Google and continues to use a static password. The new authentication method is opt-in via configuration and is fully backward compatible with existing static-password setups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tyk Identity Broker can now authenticate to Google Cloud Memorystore for Redis/Valkey using GCP IAM-based authentication, as an alternative to a static Redis password.

TIB obtains a Google OAuth2 access token from the workload's identity, using Application Default Credentials (ADC) and authenticates with the Memorystore using this token.

This is supported for use with Memorystore for Valkey and Memorystore for Redis Cluster. The legacy non-cluster Memorystore for Redis has no IAM support from Google and continues to use a static password.

The IAM configuration is set in the new `iam_auth` section of TIB's storage config.
```
